STAC-24066: Add page for Custom Integrations describing how to test t… (#162)
rancher/stackstate-product-docs: docs/latest/modules/en/pages/setup/custom-integrations/overview.adoc

On Suse Observability side, the Open Telemetry Mappings processes the incoming telemetry data, applies necessary transformations, and maps it to the appropriate entities within SUSE Observability. This enables users to visualize and analyze the telemetry data effectively.

== How to test it?

Custom Integrations should be developed against a pre-production deployment of the SUSE Observability platform. To obtain a pre-production setup to start developing your custom integration, there are two options:

=== SaaS Instance (Recommended):
For Internal Suse teams we recommend requesting a SaaS instance from the SUSE Observability team. These instances have Custom Integrations enabled and are updated automatically at least with every new release, in some cases would get pre releases containing important bug fixes or increments on experimental features.
Contact us via the dedicated channel (to be announced).

=== Self-Hosted:

> You can enable Custom Integrations in your own self hosted Suse Observability installation by setting some feature flags when installing via helm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable Custom Integrations in your own self hosted {stackstate-product-docs} installation by setting some feature flags when installing via helm:
```

    . Generate the `custom_integrations_values.yaml`. This guide assumes that you save it in the `$VALUES_DIR`

+
.$VALUES_DIR/custom_integrations_values.yaml
[,yaml]
----
global:
  features:
    experimentalStackpacks: true
----
+

>     . Deploy the SUSE Observability helm chart with the generated values plus the `.$VALUES_DIR/custom_integrations_values.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    . Deploy the {stackstate-product-docs} helm chart with the generated values plus the `.$VALUES_DIR/custom_integrations_values.yaml`
```

+
.helm_deploy.sh
[,text]
----
helm upgrade --install \
    --namespace suse-observability \
    --create-namespace \
    --values $VALUES_DIR/suse-observability-values/templates/baseConfig_values.yaml \
    --values $VALUES_DIR/suse-observability-values/templates/sizing_values.yaml \
    --values $VALUES_DIR/suse-observability-values/templates/affinity_values.yaml \
    --values $VALUES_DIR/custom_integrations_values.yaml \

>     -- set

Reviewer 2: The `-- set` seems like a remnant?

Author: Great catch

ifdef::ss-ff-stackpacks2_enabled[]
= Custom Integrations Overview
:revdate: 2026-01-06
:page-revdate: {revdate}
:description:  Custom Integrations Overview

[IMPORTANT]
====
Custom Integrations is a pre-production, unreleased feature. It is not intended for production use. But can be tested in non-production environments.
====

== Overview

Custom integrations leverage on Open Telemetry to collect and send telemetry data (metrics, traces, logs) from various sources to SUSE Observability. By using Open Telemetry, users can instrument their applications and services to gain insights into performance, reliability, and operational health.

> On Suse Observability side, the Open Telemetry Mappings processes the incoming telemetry data, applies necessary transformations, and maps it to the appropriate entities within SUSE Observability. This enables users to visualize and analyze the telemetry data effectively.

Reviewer 3: [Open Telemetry Mappings] should probably turn into a link once that work is merged

== How to test it?

> There are two ways to test Custom :

Reviewer 3: Custom Integrations

=== SaaS Instance (Recommended):
For Internal Suse teams we recommend requesting a SaaS instance from the SUSE Observability team. These instances have Custom Integrations enabled and are updated automatically at least with every new release, in some cases would get pre releases containing important bug fixes or increments on experimental features.
Contact us via the dedicated channel (to be announced).

=== Self-Hosted:
You can enable Custom Integrations in your own self hosted Suse Observability installation by setting some feature flags when installing via helm:

    . Generate the `custom_integrations_values.yaml`. This guide assumes that you save it in the `$VALUES_DIR`

+
.$VALUES_DIR/custom_integrations_values.yaml
[,yaml]
----
global:
  features:
    experimentalStackpacks: true
stackstate:
  components:
    api:
      extraEnv:
        open:

>           CONFIG_FORCE_stackstate_featureSwitches_enableTopologyStreamSync: "true"

Reviewer 3: yeah lets do that

>           CONFIG_FORCE_stackstate_featureSwitches_enableTopologyStreamSync: "true"

Reviewer 3: i missed your comment there agreed
